So now that we've installed WordPress we can now start developing our own theme.
But before that let's take a look at WordPress's folder structure. And the first file I would like to talk
about is the .htaccess file.
It's a hidden file so make sure you have hidden files displayed
if you want to view it.
So the .htaccess is a server configuration file and WordPress uses it to manage permalinks and redirects.
You're most likely not gonna have to change anything in it,
but if you do just make sure you know what you're doing. Next is the wp-includes folder and this folder
contains most of WordPress's core files.
If you're a theme developer you will never have to change anything in this folder.
The wp-admin folder contains files that run the admin panel that we saw in the
last lecture. And the wp-content folder. And this folder is where you as a theme developer will mostly work.
This folder contains plugins, which are pieces  of code that add more functionality to WordPress. And themes,
which are responsible for how your website appears. And also uploads which contains any media that you
upload to your website like images, audio and videos. Whenever you update WordPress
all the files and folders  here will be replaced with the new version except the wp-content folder and the
wp-config file.
And that's because they contain information and files specific to your website.
So as a developer you're not allowed to change anything except inside wp-content folder.
Otherwise it will be replaced whenever you update WordPress.
Let's finally take a look at the
wp-config file.
This file contains information about your database.
It's the same information we typed during the installation wizard.
In fact we could have typed this information here and skip the wizard part. It also contains some other information
that we may take a look at during this course.
So let's now start creating our theme. So in the wp-content folder and inside the themes folder let's create
a new folder. And let's call it maybe also firsttheme.
All right. So now I'm gonna open this folder in Visual Studio Code.
So the only two files required to create a WordPress theme are style.css and index.php.
So let's create these files now. I'm gonna create a new file and call it index.php.
And also I'm going to create another file and call it style.css.
So we'll talk about index.php later but for now let's just put a basic HTML5 document.
The style.css will contain some information about the theme that will appear in the Appearance tab
that displays all the available themes.
So let's type these information and it's written in a PHP comment. So the first one is the Theme Name.
So let's type firsttheme. And then the Author. So I'm gonna just type my name. And then we have theAauthor
URL. You can type
your URL here.
And then we have the Description for your theme. So I'm just gonna type some dummy text here.
And then we have the Version of the theme. And this is our first version so I'm gonna put 1.0.
And then we have the License and this field might differ depending on where are you gonna put your
theme, where are you gonna publish it.
So I'm gonna just copy and paste the license required for a Theme Forest since maybe that's what you
are looking for.
But if that's not what you looking for
make sure to do some research on this.
Next we have the Text Domain and we'll talk more about this later.
But typically it's the same as your theme name.
And finally you can add some Tags for your theme.
So I'm just gonna put a couple of tags here and then you can add your own.
So I think now we're done with this file.
We may come here later and modify some stuff,
but let's go back now to the wp-admin and in the Appearance tab you'll find your theme listed amongst
the other themes. But as you can see
our theme has no image. And to create an image for the theme,
it's pretty easy, let's create png of 1200x900 pixels. And all you have to do is just name it
screenshot.png and then put it in the root folder of your theme.
So I already did a dummy image. So I'm gonna go ahead and put it in the same folder.
And if you go ahead now and refresh, you'll find the image attached to your theme.